otelcol.exporter.otlp: new component (#2343)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/otelcol.exporter.otlp.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/otelcol.exporter.otlp
title: otelcol.exporter.otlp
---

# otelcol.exporter.otlp

`otelcol.exporter.otlp` accepts telemetry data from other `otelcol` components
and writes them over the network using the OTLP gRPC protocol.

> > **NOTE**: `otelcol.exporter.otlp` is a wrapper over the upstream

Author: > I'm not sure what this note means -- I'm confused specifically about "may." Who will be redirecting the bug reports/feature requests? Or are we telling them where to submit? Like this (?):

Yeah, I'm not sure myself to be honest. I think I'd prefer people to open issues in our repo, and for us to transfer them to another repository or ask to submit it upstream. That way upstream doesn't get an influx of issues which are Grafana Agent-specific and don't apply to them.

> > **NOTE**: `otelcol.exporter.otlp` is a wrapper over the upstream

Reviewer: Haha, so we _wanted_ to be vague.

> > OpenTelemetry Collector `otlp` exporter. Bug reports or feature requests may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> OpenTelemetry Collector `otlp` exporter. Bug reports or feature requests will
```

> > be redirected to the upstream repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> be redirected to the upstream repository, if necessary.
```

Multiple `otelcol.exporter.otlp` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

## Usage

```river
otelcol.exporter.otlp "LABEL" {
  client {
    endpoint = "HOST:PORT"
  }
}
```

## Arguments

`otelcol.exporter.otlp` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`timeout` | `duration` | Time to wait before marking a request as failed. | `"5s"` | no

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`otelcol.exporter.otlp`:

Hierarchy | Block | Description | Required
--------- | ----- | ----------- | --------

> client | [client][] | Configures the gRPC server to send telemetry data to. | **yes**

Reviewer: Why is "yes" in bold?

Author: Just to call attention to something being required; we do it for other component reference pages. 

Do you think we should change it to an unbolded yes/no consistently?

Reviewer: Yes, sorry -- I didn't catch this in others.  I don't think bold is necessary.

Author: Ack, I'll remove the bold from here and open a separate PR to fix the existing content.

The `client` block configures the gRPC client used by the component.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`endpoint` | `string` | `host:port` to send telemetry data to. | | **yes**
`compression` | `string` | Compression mechanism to use for requests. | `"gzip"` | no
`read_buffer_size` | `string` | Size of the read buffer the gRPC client will use for reading server responses. | | no
`write_buffer_size` | `string` | Size of the write buffer the gRPC client will use for writing requests. | `"512KiB"` | no
`wait_for_ready` | `boolean` | Waits for gRPC connection to be in the `READY` state before sending data. | `false` | no
`headers` | `map(string)` | Additional headers to send with the request. | `{}` | no
`balancer_name` | `string` | Which gRPC client-side load balancer to use for requests. | | no

By default, requests will be compressed with gzip. The `compression` argument
controls which compression mechanism to use. Supported strings are:

* `"gzip"`
* `"zlib"`
* `"deflate"`
* `"snappy"`
* `"zstd"`

If `compression` is set to `"none"` or an empty string `""`, no compression

> will be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is used.
```

server.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`ca_file` | `string` | Path to the CA file. | | no
`cert_file` | `string` | Path to the TLS certificate. | | no
`key_file` | `string` | Path to the TLS certificate key. | | no
`min_version` | `string` | Minimum acceptable TLS version for connections. | `"TLS 1.2"` | no
`max_version` | `string` | Maximum acceptable TLS version for connections. | `"TLS 1.3"` | no
`insecure` | `boolean` | Disables TLS when connecting to the gRPC server. | | no
`insecure_skip_verify` | `boolean` | Ignores insecure server TLS sertificates. | | no
`server_name` | `string` | Verifies the hostname of server certificates when set. | | no

The `tls` block should always be provided, even if the server doesn't support
TLS. To disable `tls` for connections to the gRPC server, set the `insecure`
argument to `true`.

### keepalive block

The `keepalive` block configures keepalive settings for gRPC client
connections.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `time` | `duration` | How often to ping the server after no activity. | | no

Reviewer 2: `time` feels very generic; how about ping or keepalive? This is probably what its called currently but I feel we can make this clearer. Then we can rename `permit_without_stream` to `allow_ping_without_stream`

Author: @mattdurham WDYT about:

* `ping_wait` 
* `pong_timeout` 
* `ping_without_stream`

Reviewer 2: LGTM

`timeout` | `duration` | Time to wait before closing inactive connections if the server does not respond to a ping. | | no
`permit_without_stream` | `boolean` | Send pings even if there is no active stream request. | | no

### queue block

The `queue` block configures an in-memory buffer of batches before data is sent
to the gRPC server.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`enabled` | `boolean` | Enables an in-memory buffer before sending data to the client. | `true` | no
`num_consumers` | `number` | Number of readers which will send batches written to the queue in parallel. | `10` | no
`queue_size` | `number` | Maximum number of unwritten batches allowed in the queue at once. | `5000` | no

> When `enabled` is `true`, data will first be written to an in-memory buffer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `enabled` is `true`, data is first written to an in-memory buffer
```

before sending it to the configured gRPC server. Batches sent to the
component's `input` exported field will be added to the buffer as long as the
number of unsent batches does not exceed the configured `queue_size`.

`queue_size` is used to determine how long an endpoint outage is tolerated for.
Assuming 100 requests/second, the default queue size `5000` provides about 50
seconds of outage tolerance. To calculate the correct value for `queue_size`,
multiply the average number of outgoing requests per second by the amount of
time in seconds outages should be tolerated for.

The `num_consumers` argument controls how many readers will read from the

> buffer and send data in parallel. Larger values of `num_consumers` will allow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
buffer and send data in parallel. Larger values of `num_consumers` allow
```

> to send data more quickly at the expense of increased network traffic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data to be sent more quickly at the expense of increased network traffic.
```

### retry block

The `retry` block configures how failed requests to the gRPC server will be
retried.

The following arguments are supported:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`enabled` | `boolean` | Enables retrying failed requests. | `true` | no
`initial_interval` | `duration` | Initial time to wait before retrying a failed request. | `"5s"` | no
`max_interval` | `duration` | Maximum time to wait between retries. | `"30s"` | no
`max_elapsed_time` | `duration` | Maximum amount of time to wait before discarding a failed batch. | `"5m"` | no

> When `enabled` is `true`, failed batches will be retried after a given

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When `enabled` is `true`, failed batches are retried after a given
```

interval. The `initial_interval` argument specifies how long to wait before the
first retry attempt. If requests continue to fail, the time to wait before

> retrying will exponentially increase. The `max_interval` argument specifies the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
retrying increases exponentially. The `max_interval` argument specifies the
```

> upper bound of how long to wait in between retries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
upper bound of how long to wait between retries.
```
